Carter Stevens

Intro: It's dark.
New England gets very dark. Some people think it gets darker here than in other places in the world. Perhaps, you muse, it's all the creatures in the night, the slendermen and werewolves, who embody the absence of light. You slump, stationary, behind a harsh computer monitor beside a window in your room, staring at a text document. It's an old Apple box, and it's been nearly ten years since the operating system got an update. This is, of course, as high as it will go, until I start tossing out some of the old, crappy hardware. The shell script I'm writing isn't working, and I'm about to give up for now and mess around with striped volumes on some of these single-gigabyte thumb drives on my desk, when I'm startled by a knock on the screen door, directly below the road-facing window in my room. Due to the unique way in which my house is built (an a-frame), the knock sounds like it could have come from the wall directly above my head, making it all the more unnerving.


All the lamps on my desk are off, so I flick one on and crank open one of the gable windows. I look down to see my friends, Thomas and will, standing outside, their helmets in their hands and their bikes at their sides. Thomas shields his eyes from the driveway’s motion-sensor light, and squints in my general direction. will, who is still looking at Thomas, probably does not realise that Thomas sees me. I see this, and I know exactly what it means. I turn off my monitor, rush downstairs, grab the handle on the front door, pull, and ... nothing happens. I straighten up, unlock the deadbolt, and try again. This time, it works, and I yank the door open, reaching from inside to hold the screen door open. 


"I don't have my new bike, yet, guys, sorry. " Will looks at me like he wasn't expecting me to come downstairs and then says, 

"Oh, that's fine, but can you ride?" I stutter for a second, and then say, "I found my bike light! But, uh, let me, uh, check." I dash back inside, get the uninterested "Yeah, sure" from my mother, and I'm off. 

By "off," I mean, I jog the five feet across the hall and into my room where, upon arriving at my desk, I search for the oblong, sleek, matte black bike flashlight; carrying the assumption that I know exactly where it is, I fail to switch on the overhead lights and unclamp one of the desk lamps to use as a handheld light source. I look in the bookshelf across from my desk, behind the monitor and underneath the desk before zeroing in on the thing on top of my dresser. I grab it, fumble with the ever-picky button to check the battery level, and rush back downstairs, where I find my helmet hanging on a coat rack hook. Having left the door ajar, I push open the screen outside door and place my helmet and bike light on the steps. I give my friends a sassy, "just one minute" index finger gesture, and then, rush back up to my room to find my gloves. These I can locate instantly, fortunately, since I had just used them the previous day and shoved them in my bike bag. I pull them out of the case, under the bike manuals, under the tyre-levers, under the hex-nuts. I bolt back down the stairs, taking them two at a time now, despite being a relatively short set of stairs.

"Alright," I say, as I start to head over to my shed, but Thomas directs my attention elsewhere: to Will's new bike, which is full suspension and has — get this: Front and Rear hydraulic disc brakes. Meaning, they use air rather than stretchable, rustable, fiddly braided steel cables, and they cost $400 to repair or replace.

I chuckle and say, "Yes, I know, it's awesome!" I remember then that I have the Kona 2014-2015 handbook with my new bike in it just inside and tell them I'll get it. I hand it to Thomas and say, "Go ahead, guess which one." He starts pointing at all the ubercool bikes in it excitedly, and when I say it isn't marked by any of the writing or stickies, and that those are from Will and his mom, who gave me the handbook, he gives up and hands me back the booklet. I open it to the page and show him it and he holds the booklet up in the air, partly to see it better in the driveway light and partly because it's like a trophy.

"That's your new bike? Awesome."

"Yes, I know. It is awesome. Okay." Now I do get my bike out of the shed, set the lock and walk it over to the front of my house, but I'm blinded by car headlights. The headlights from Will’s dad’s car, of course, meaning he has to go home. 

"Aw, gahd," the three of us say in unison, Will because he has to go and Thomas, seeing what I am: my front tire is completely flat. I get the pump and return to Will and his dad conversing, but, as if it were a telephone call, I can only hear one side of the conversation. 

"Dad. We are leaving right now, please," will says, exasperated.

"Actually, my tire is flat, for some reason, so no, we aren't."

"Oh. Well, then, I have to go." Thomas and I grumble and say,

"Aw, whatever, okay. See ya." I ask Thomas if he can still ride and he nods his assent. Awkwardly, and because it is a foot-powered bike pump, I start to fill my tire and check the pressure every couple of pumps. Because we will be riding mostly on maintained gravel and tar roads, I leave it pretty high. If we were planning to go off-road a lot I would leave it lower, but I need the insurance at this time of night. 

Finally, I deem the pressure up to snuff for now, replace the cap and check my back tire to make sure it's fine before replacing the bike pump in the garage and toggling my bike light.

"Are we ready to rock and roll?"


		~~~


I slap my the left side of my lower thigh for the tenth time to make sure there's nothing in my cargo pocket, since these shorts don't have proper pockets. There isn't anything in them, of course, but I usually have at least my wallet or Walkman in there. I look back over at Thomas to say something but slam on my brakes instead. He isn't beside me. He didn't go ahead of me; I would still see his back light, even at this distance; the next curve in the road is quite a ways away. Maybe he crashed, or went off the road behind me, I think to myself. I take my bike light off my handlebars and use it as a flashlight before laying my bike on the ground and searching the road, shoulders and surrounding forest for a person, or even the faint red flashing light on his bike. 

I start to head back towards my bike from the embankment on the opposite side of the road that I had been climbing, but my light grazes something maybe thirty feet from me: fresh skid marks in the middle of the newly-graded dirt road. They aren't from me; my bike is nearly a hundred feet behind me and I skidded near the shoulder. Crouching down, I can see that they're no more than seconds old: there's still a little bit of dust settling, and the exposed dirt is moist. Examining the beginning of the skid, it's clear that they're from Sam's bike: I recognise the tread and track. Frantically, I search the road and both shoulders for a bike or just anything at all. There aren't even any scuff marks or footprints on the road. My head is pounding with adrenaline, so hard that I can all but sprint back to where my bike SHOULD be. Except it isn't there. No matter, I think. I'll just jog home. Maybe I can call 9-1-1 and report a missing person or something.



Despite how unathletic and skinny I usually am, I have no trouble sprinting at a steady pace the mile back to my house. There is a shorter, far more direct route, through the mountain biking trails in the forest, but that only occurs to me when I'm near the forest outlet: too little too late. 

Somehow, I'm still not out of breath when I run up my porch stairs, pull open the outside door and throw myself shoulder-first against the inside door, which opens quite a lot more easily than I was expecting, causing me to stumble inside. When I walk inside, my mom is standing in the kitchen, leaning over the counter. I start to ask about needing the phone when I  notice something about her seems… off. 
"Mom? Are you alright?" I query, my voice shaky and hesitant. 

I witness her form shudder and turn. Well, more transform than turn. She raises her head and I stumble back against the wall behind me. Her eyes are blood red. Dark, but kind of glowing. Her skin is white. Pure white, and translucent, like she's made of some rare stone or very thin bedsheets. She steps towards me now, or more correctly floats towards me. I don't know what happens then, but I guess I black out because everything goes dark suddenly.


I'm lying on a road. The road. The one where Thomas disappeared, along with our bikes. For some reason, I feel fine, like I just had a good night's sleep. On a dirt road. 

I’m awake, and now, there’s light. My eyes aren’t open yet, but I wonder if it’s actually day for once. I collect the ambition to do so and...no, it isn't day. It's lighter than the back of my eyelids, but not dawn. I can see my hand in front of my face, but there's very little ambient light. I take a guess that it's between 2 and 4 in the morning, but it's hard to tell. I stand up awkwardly, more interested in what on earth is happening than looking like a movie star the moment I wake up from my literal dirt nap. Not to my surprise, but much to my chagrin, Thomas, nor his bike, nor mine are anywhere to be found. Fine, but this time, I'll go home and I'll get into bed and I'll wake up in my own bed, and so will Thomas, because this isn't real, I reason. I start to jog home, but realise that the adrenaline has worn off and I can't just be sprinting miles left and right, so I walk instead. It takes longer than I would have liked, but that's okay. As long as all of...this goes away, I'm fine. And it will. When I get home. 

I have these thoughts just as I'm walking up the grassy rise where my weeks-old pure black asphalt driveway should be. But where's my house? A bike is small, light, overlookable, especially in the dark of night when I'm tired. But my house? I come here every day. I live here. I know where it is, and what it looks like, and there should be three vehicles spread over two separate driveways. I look to my left. No fence, but every tree that it would have been nailed to, and every tree I can see for that matter, is in the same place. The grass covering the knoll that is (was?) my basement is three feet tall. There are saplings in some places, and ferns everywhere. My neighbours' houses aren't there and, surprise, surprise, neither is Sam's. All empty, cleared, overgrown lots. 

What. Is. Happening. Those words pound my head over and over. Soon, they're replaced with This isn't real. It's not real. Wake up. Fine, I think, I'll head into town. Maybe someone there can explain this.

Bad idea.

This time, to be faster, I do take the trails. But I start behind Sam's house, where the swamp is dead and uniform. Despite my many times back here, I soon find myself not knowing how to get out. Something occurs to me. To my left, a much thicker forest of live deciduous and evergreen trees. Ahead of me and to my right is the same sandy-mud coloured swamp and its sandy mud-coloured beech trees. I jog with some difficulty towards the stream and the live forest, and ... Aha! This is the part of the forest that I know much better. With a running start, I jump the creek, which is maybe a five or six foot gap, and continue straight towards the embankment for the road, which abuts these trails. And I notice something else odd, as I'm about to scramble up. Just like at my house, all the trees are in the right spot, but there are no heavily worn tracks in the dirt and mud, no sign that a human or a mechanical device with two rubber wheels had ever set foot back here. Odd, I muse, but maybe it just rained really hard or something. At that, I scoff. Yeah, and wash away any sign of life? Sure.

No matter, I think, it'll all be explained away soon. Perhaps I'm in the wrong neighbourhood. Maybe I'm just so deep in the woods that I'm seeing mirages of things I think I recognise. 

I finally make it up the nearly vertical embankment and see ... a disused logging road? We have a lot of those around here, but Aspen Way — the Aspen Way — overcome by nothingness? Surely not. This road and its curves are too distinct to be mistaken for any other road. Besides, I was just on this road a couple of minutes ago. 

Wait. Minutes? How long has it been? Hours? Days? I realise have no sense of time. I scan the sky for any sign of an orbital body, but there are none to be found. It seems clear; maybe I'm just incredibly, unbelievably unlucky. Seems that way, anyways.

I decide to follow the road anyways, just to see if I can prove myself wrong. 

Prove myself wrong I do, as when I arrive at the intersection of Aspen Way and State Route 153, there's a big clearing where there should be a subcontractor's supply superstore and its massive paved parking lot, not to mention more clearing where there should be construction on a two-way highway. And, oh yeah, there's no highway. I run across what's usually a ridiculously dangerous intersection, certainly during the day, which brings the following issue to my attention: the moon is out, in the middle of the sky, as if it's been there all night.

How did it...get there? The question, in its entirety, is baffling. 


I walk across what I still expect to be a busy road and I'm in a much larger clearing now than I was before. In what used to be a large, tar parking lot, I bend down, to see if there's actually cracked and demolished pavement. But no, it's dirt, and from digging with a flat stone, I can see it goes down for at least six inches. I stand back up -- too quickly, obviously, because before I can catch myself I'm dizzy and my legs go weak under me. I fall, hard, and hit my head. Everything is once again dark. I think I like it better this way.


Now, I'm not in my bed, unfortunately, but more fortunately I'm not where I fell last time, either. I'm lying on the road. Again. I can hear voices. None that I recognise. No, just one. He sounds frightened, but his tone changes frequently. Same place as last time, but now, it's light. Really, really bright. So bright that I have a hard time opening my eyes. But when I do, everything rushes back into my head like a thousand stampeding elephants: the lights are from a car. The one that hit us, because we had our bike lights off. (In all fairness, his headlights were off, and he came onto our side of the road.) The voice? It's the driver of the car, on his phone with emergency services.

I can move. Mostly. I get up, and stumble-run over to where Thomas is lying on the ground. He says he's fine, but his bloody nose, twisted ankle and inability to stand up say otherwise. 

The driver gets off his phone and looks at us. We stare back. The only thing to break the silence are the sirens in the distance.


		~~~


Everyone claps. I beam. My best friends smile.

"Wow," my friend Jessica says, sliding closer to me on the bench around the campfire. "That was an amazing story!" 

"Thanks," I reply, "It only took me a couple of nights to write."

"You performed it really well, too!" says one of the younger kids sitting on the other side of the blaze. At that, I stand up and take another bow. More laughs, and some claps.

The camp counselor nods at me in approval and then turns to another of the camp's aspiring storytellers, James. He starts with a grin.

"Well, I was riding my bike this one night, see, and..."


